CNV-52859: Configuring VM interface link state (#91883)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-configuring-interface-link-state.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/vm_networking/virt-setting-interface-link-state.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE                                  
[id="virt-configuring-interface-link-state_{context}"]
= Setting the VM interface link state by using the CLI

> You can set the link state of a primary or secondary virtual machine (VM) network interface by using the CLI.

Reviewer: Please consider adding a short explanation about what this feature does:
It allows users to logically disconnect the vNIC from a network - it is the virtual equivalent of physically disconnecting an Ethernet cable from the physical NIC.

.Prerequisites
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure
. Edit the VM configuration to set the interface link state, as in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:
  name: my-vm
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      domain:
        devices:
          interfaces:
            - name: default # <1>
              state: down # <2>
              masquerade: { }
      networks:
        - name: default
          pod: { }
# ...
----
<1> The name of the interface.
<2> The state of the interface. The possible values are:
+
* `up`: Represents an active network connection. This is the default if no value is specified.
* `down`: Represents a request to disable the network connection.
* `absent`: Represents a request to hot unplug the network interface.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> If you have defined readiness and liveness probes to run VM health checks, setting the interface link state to `down` causes the probes to fail.

Reviewer: Thus making the whole workload fail / restart.

> If you have defined readiness or liveness probes to run VM health checks, setting the interface link state to `down` causes the probes to fail. If a liveness probe fails, the VM is deleted and a new VM is created to restore responsiveness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have defined readiness or liveness probes to run VM health checks, setting the primary interface's link state to `down` causes the probes to fail. If a liveness probe fails, the VM is deleted and a new VM is created to restore responsiveness.
```
